Title:After 4 interviews, rejected for eating a cornflake.
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/recruitinghell/comments/rzq9dc/after_4_interviews_rejected_for_eating_a_cornflake/
I've had 4 interviews at this place. At the last one, with some of the seniors, I've arrived on time. I've waited in the kitchen, and they just casually chatted while making a toast. 

You can sense they're two goofballs. After a while, I joined them since it was just weird and they offered me to get something to eat. I wasn't really familiar with the kitchen but I saw a cornflakes dispenser and I put some in a disposable cup.

They then said, great let's go to the interview. We do it very casually, we laugh a lot, and say our goodbyes.

I now recieved a phone call that I didn't get in because I took 3-4 cornflakes while we were there. It's a hightech job. I knew all the technical questions and was told by the HR that that's what they said.

What do you think? Was this justified? I get that it would seem like an unusual situation but it was their idea to get it and it felt a lot like a casual get-to-know-you chat.

Thanks ahead!

UPDATE and EDIT:

* the interview was not in the kitchen, I waited in the kitchen while the manager made himself a toast which he ate in the kitchen. This is well after we should’ve met. The interview was in a meeting room. 
* they sort of insisted I take something from the kitchen and the cornflakes were closest, so I took it.
* I’m not supposed to know that it’s the cornflakes, I was told that in confidence by the middleman HR company 
* curious, I just called them to see what they have to say, since everything went so well. She told me “I’ll talk to everyone who interviewed you along the way and get back to you”
* I ask for less than the market usually pays for this job since I’m not as experienced. I asked them to talk over if it’s a money issue to which she said that shouldn’t be a problem, and if it would be, we could discuss something that works.
----------TITLE----------
Topic engagement score: 3.3808695652173912
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hrwmqch
Comment score: 146
Comment body: Yup. Crappy HR trap. I’m not HR but in my last position I used to do some interviews. I was once forced to reject a candidate because when I offered something to drink she asked for a Coke…

Apparently, according to the HR nut job, if you ask for a Coke you don’t care about yourself therefore you won’t care about your job.

Also, I remember a candidate being invited to join us to the company lunch before Christmas. Rejected for overconfidence.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hrwofkz
Comment score: 27
Comment body: OOC, what would be the "correct" answer in that case? Coffee? Water? Nothing thank you? Do-you-have-any-good-loose-leaf-teas?
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hrwt7oa
Comment score: 16
Comment body: Coke was present (in eyesight) but it wasn’t an option. Also, it was perceived as unhealthy. HR always left shit around to induce to confusion.

When I was recruited, during my first interview I asked for a tea since it was freezing cold snowing. For the second one I asked for coffee and I was pointed a Senseo machine (which was broken) so I made instant coffee with the kettle next to it. I got the job, I still don’t know if it was because I can make coffee or if it’s I was the best candidate or the only one crazy enough to stick to the end.

PS: I live in France, people here tend to be more “aware” if their weight and size. It was a cultural shock when I moved here.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hrxad31
Comment score: 7
Comment body: What do you mean by your PS? Do you mean that French people are more self-conscious of their size, or judgmental of others? Totally curious about that.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hrxee0o
Comment score: 5
Comment body: Both. In my opinion they’re overly judgmental.

I love France and Paris (where I live) but most of the people here need a chill pill asap.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hrxjgce
Comment score: 4
Comment body: Paris is like a special version of France where a population that is already particularly involved in its community also jams sticks up their asses on purpose.

I'd be surprised to find any francophones who like modern Parisian culture.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hryw2np
Comment score: 3
Comment body: Isn't Paris simply this weird, because for too many generations all the guys, who thought, they were too important, gathered there, since it was the capital? In federal countries the difference between the capital and the rest isn't as bad.

In Germany with it's always changing capital (Aachen, Frankfurt, Wien,Berlin,Bonn,Berlin (may have been a few in between, I skipped)), you find not too many differences between the capital and other cities in similar sizes. And each federal state also has its own capital, which might even be more impressive and richer than Berlin due to the still lingering wounds of the cold war.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hrza9yp
Comment score: 2
Comment body: I can’t speak for Germany (only been there as a tourist) but people in the French provinces tend to be way more xenophobic than in Paris.

The worst experiences I had were in Nice and Aix-en-Provence. I would pick Paris over any other French city as a foreigner.

They might be smug but they won’t insult you (that much) for not speaking the local dialect or speaking in any other language than French in public places.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hrzgxr0
Comment score: 1
Comment body: In Germany the difference between east and west is a bigger factor than capital and land, but since the capital is in the east, but was partially part of the west, there's also a big difference there compared to the rural land around it.

The new federal states (former DDR) have a big issue with neo-nazis and similar. (Idk how bad it is compared to other countries, but the existence of any of these is concerning.) Apparently the soviet union wasn't good in getting rid of them, but just forced them into hiding. The much weaker economy in the east is also a factor.

Then there is Bavaria, which is technically in the east, belonged to the west and his still rather conservative catholic.

I would love to visit France again, once this whole Corona problem is gone (rn I wouldn't even cross the border to the Netherlands). I've only been to Paris so far, but I would love to see the lavender fields in the Provence or see the land, where my great-grandmother came from (Elsass). But without speaking French, Idk how nice they might be. I've heard, that French hate it, to get asked in English, is that still the case?