Title:Recruiters of Reddit, why are you always looking for a unicorn candidate?
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/recruitinghell/comments/s02lqa/recruiters_of_reddit_why_are_you_always_looking/
This is going to be the same on the side of a job candidate. You can find a job that you love but there's still going to be some things that you don't like about it nothing is 100% perfect. Perfection is an unrealistic expectation and I don't understand why employers X out pretty much everyone, And not to mention all the stress and pressure They put a job candidate under in the interview. I feel there is the worst candidate, A good candidate, And the best candidate but there is no unicorn candidate that can do everything and have everything that you want. As everyone else is saying employers are offering very low wages for jobs They need to fill. I'm talking about skilled positions. I for in, for instance,stance have specific experience in the construction industry and I've been applying to jobs the postings I've seen list all the credentials that I have but the pay is so low it's Ridiculous. I feel like pay should be dependent on experience and there should be an open negotiation there shouldn't be just a flat rate salary or Hourly wage on the posting.
----------TITLE----------
Topic engagement score: 7.489690721649485
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hrz1v5s
Comment score: 66
Comment body: The desire to have “unicorn” candidates comes from the hiring manager, not the recruiter.  Recruiters are simply seeking out the type of candidate a hiring manager has asked for.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hrzv4wu
Comment score: 35
Comment body: When a recruiter doesn't temper expectations they are just a Con Artist taking advantage of a mark then.

I can have a dozen people demanding I sell them the Maltese Falcon but if I don't have it, i am a grifter no matter their level of demand.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs03h82
Comment score: 33
Comment body: Yeah, managing expectations is a huge part of being a recruiter.  Recruiters bring market data to the hiring managers and try and find the candidate that aligns closest to the requirements if they are “unicorn” requirements that can’t truly be filled, but ultimately the hiring manager gets final say. Recruiters act as the liaison between the business and the candidates and as a result they are often the messenger of bad news that is coming from somewhere way above their pay grade.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs2h9us
Comment score: 32
Comment body: "market data" = things that they noticed after making a couple of calls or just surfing the internet real quick.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs2onk5
Comment score: 28
Comment body: Maybe for some people. Reputable agencies and companies that place a high emphasis on recruiting usually have entire teams that focus on market data and intel. It’s important to understand the current demand of the types of candidates you’re recruiting for, the salary ranges that you’re competitors are offering, historic application volume and time to fill when similar roles have been opening in the past, and so much more.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs2r1cj
Comment score: 27
Comment body: But when they're not doing the basic things like an actual Job Analysis, it's just a fancy way of saying they surf the net until they feel they're done. 

I've had dozens of recruiters try to "educate" me about what it is they actually do. There is no empirical approach or any validation effort behind the findings. That's not research. And it's dangerous because they don't control for range restrictions or actively seek out conflicting data points, so it's just reinforcing initial speculations and beliefs by passively raking in data that's within reach.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs2spgk
Comment score: 26
Comment body: Job analysis is done as the role is being scoped. It’s normally not done by a recruiter but rather HR and team leaders to determine what is is that the person will actually be doing in the role, how they will impact the goals of the organization and team, how their performance will be measured, the qualifications (both required and preferred) needed to fulfill the job.  Sometimes recruiters are included in these conversations to help them better understand what they’re going to be recruiting for but not always. 

That’s separate from the data I’m referring to which recruiters an recruiting ops professionals use to inform hiring managers and HR about what’s going on.  You can consider it surfing the net but a lot more goes into it than that.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs2ufi5
Comment score: 25
Comment body: If we leave it to recruiters, they will say that technically they are not really responsible for doing anything, and that it's all on HR and the managers. The method still stands that it can be done as a more objective and critical examination into the role, more than whatever "looking at market data" means. It shouldn't be that exclusive from each other.

Because my main point was that everything sounded super fancy and business-like, but in reality, recruiters aren't doing this hard-hitting research that the narrative claims. If it was someone who didn't know this field as well as I do, they might believe that recruiters are really working hard to bring viable and supported data for managers to make well-informed hiring decisions. Some of us clearly know this is not the case.

So, really, recruiters end up looking for unicorns because they don't know or have the proper techniques to do the job better. Shifting responsibilities onto the hiring partners is just skirting accountability.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs2yiv8
Comment score: 24
Comment body: It doesn’t sound like you know where recruiting starts and ends.  In just about any field, no single role is responsible for an entire process.  So many people are involved with the hiring process, but recruiters are just the most outward facing people. 

Before a role is handed over to a recruiter, there are so many people involved (and it’s done a little differently at every organization).  Someone needs to identify that need exists and approve it (this is usually done by senior leaders), the role needs to then be scoped, a budget must be approved, a job description is created- all before a recruiter touches it. 

Recruiters exist to fill open roles.  So they may be seeking out a unicorn candidate, but the desire to have a unicorn candidate is coming from hiring managers or whoever decided the scope of the role.  Some recruiters can continue to just spin their wheels looking for a candidate that doesn’t exist.  Others try and manage HM expectations through a variety of ways and that can include using data. Sure, it may not be hard hitting. Maybe it is just surfing the web and pulling up some information from competitors that can be shared with a hiring manager to let them know what they’re looking for is unrealistic. It may help, it may not.  But many companies put a lot of money into this data so it’s much more than searching the web. Third party companies are hired, softwares are used, entire teams may be dedicated to it, it depends on the situation.  

Recruiters do not make the hiring decision. They may have input throughout the process, but the decision is very rarely, if ever, up to them. A recruiters performance is measure by their ability to fill roles. Any recruiter who cares about their job wants to fill that role, probably more than the hiring manager does. Their job quite literally depends on it.  They don’t want to be looking for a unicorn, but they also cannot decide the requirements of the role.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs2zrmi
Comment score: 23
Comment body: I'm aware of how a hiring team is splintered these days, but that's not the only way to hire. I think a lot of people just believe that recruitment is suppose to be separate and have a distinct set of duties from HR, hiring managers, etc., as a convenient way to skirt blame when a hiring process breaks down. This is different from truly understanding how good hiring can look and work. 

Because now you can sit there and say "well this is technically not the recruiter's job, and a recruiter can only do so much; meanwhile, recruiters are doing serious business research..." It's a sales pitch that lot of us don't buy into.

It sounds like organizations with fully-staffed internal organizational development professionals conducting evidence-based hiring would just blow your mind.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs5i86e
Comment score: 22
Comment body: It truly doesn’t seem like you are aware.  I think there is much room to improve standard hiring practices. I think even the best companies have room to improve their processes. But at the end of the day, the typical recruiter (even if they are good) does not have the agency to control the entire hiring process. You can do business research and still not be the ultimate decision maker.  

There are plenty of things a recruiter can do to fuck up the hiring process, but they are not the people deciding the requirements of the role. 

I work for a wonderful organization. One of the top tech companies in the world. Our organization development team is great, but they’re not recruiters.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs7i3if
Comment score: 21
Comment body: You're still thinking in terms of "recruiters are legitimate", which is why you're getting tripped up on the fact that there are other professionals who can do the job more efficiently and comprehensively. You're not aware of how much better it's been done.

I hate to spell out my CV again to prove my point. Let's just put it this way: You're basing efficacy on what you've seen only as a recruiter working at your company. That is not representative of how recruitment is done best. This isn't a "room for improvement" issue, this is a "people who are woefully unqualified to perform specific duties, trying to make it seem like whatever they do is good enough" problem. If you're part of the team, and you're this disjointed and powerless, why do we need any of you folks to be involved, really? There is zero value.

Not being able to picture a functional team who can tackle a whole range of organizational development functions, including recruitment, is a You problem. *You* can't picture that. That's not the same as it just can't exist and we're stuck with recruiters who can say they're not responsible for anything they don't feel like.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs7ndjy
Comment score: 12
Comment body: > . If you're part of the team, and you're this disjointed and powerless, why do we need any of you folks to be involved, really? There is zero value.

This is my biggest problem that no one seems to understand.  

If a hiring team is allowed to run rough shot through the hiring process, what's the point of having a recruiter?
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs7qus7
Comment score: 10
Comment body: Do you think hiring managers are going to take on the responsibility of screening each resume that comes through the ATS, run searches, make endless phone calls and screen endless candidates, answer hundreds of emails from perspective and active candidates, build out pipelines, etc? They’re not. Without recruiters, very few people would get hired. Recruiters are constantly chasing down hiring managers for interview feedback and next steps for candidates. Hiring managers don’t have the bandwidth to take on all that extra work. It may not seem important and it’s definitely not rocket science, but it’s high volume and time consuming. 

Who do you think should do that work if there is no need for recruiters to be involved?
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs7s217
Comment score: 9
Comment body: Sounds like recruiters are nothing more than secretaries, then.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs7tdl0
Comment score: 8
Comment body: What’s wrong with being a secretary?
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs7vllt
Comment score: 7
Comment body: Recruiters tend to oversell their capabilities and importance in the process when all they are really doing is what amounts to clerical work.

They aren't adding any value to the process if the hiring team can do anything they want and aren't using best practices.  But, many recruiters and their superiors are unwilling to hold anyone accountable.

Also, if they are just secretaries, why am I paying them $20K to place software engineers at my company?  (Locally, Senior Engineers can make six figures and the average pay for a 3rd party recruiter is roughly 20% of salary)
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs7ydyy
Comment score: 6
Comment body: I’m not sure, why are you paying a recruiter 20k to place software engineers at your company? Why don’t you have the secretary do it? Or why don’t you just do it yourself? If you believe that recruiters don’t have value then it seems silly that you’re using them to meet your hiring needs.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs80j3l
Comment score: 5
Comment body: I'm gonna take a page out of your playbook, and whine about how you're speaking in generalities, and haven't specified what exactly recruiters do that brings value above and beyond just assigning this to a secretary.

It would be very interesting, because so far we're just seeing "we have to do what the manager tells us to do".
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs83048
Comment score: 4
Comment body: Scroll up. I have spoken about what recruiters do. You either refuse to believe it or just decide that the work isn’t important.  You can feel that the work is easy and doesn’t add value. I’m not going to change how you feel, but the work still needs to get done and that’s what recruiters do.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs8496j
Comment score: 3
Comment body: Recruiters *aren't* doing it - that's the complaint.

Recruiters are doing *stuff*, but it's not stuff that meaningfully identify the appropriate talent for the organization, nor it's meeting any real organizational needs. And if it boils down to just following whatever the manager says, that title of "Recruiter" that you're clinging to for credential doesn't really mean anything.

You're not going to change how I feel, because that's not your  job, and you also don't know this work well enough. And it's up to recruiters *actually* doing better to change the public's perception about them, not because you keep making personal attacks lol
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs865el
Comment score: 2
Comment body: You don’t know this work well enough.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hs86hkv
Comment score: 1
Comment body: You don't think I do. And you're holding on to the belief simply because I'm not pouring out my CV just for you.