Title:Is being a SWE supposed to be this difficult
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/cscareerquestions/comments/s1wvkd/is_being_a_swe_supposed_to_be_this_difficult/
Everyone always talks about how hard the interviews are but no one seems to talk about how hard the actual position itself can be. While problem solving for a living definitely can be rewarding, at the same time it feels so draining and burdensome. I have to constantly push my brain past its limits to learn brand new concepts I’ve never seen before and think outside the box with little to no guidance. Again, this definitely has its benefits, but also just gets very tiring very quickly.

I get that being an SWE is best suited for people who like to tackle new types of challenges every day, and if I don’t fit into that box I may be in the wrong profession, but I really just wish my job wasn’t so difficult all the time. I want to feel confident in my work instead of just constantly feeling anxious and stressed because I’m racing against the clock to understand and implement something I’ve never done before.
----------TITLE----------
Topic engagement score: 3.712328767123288
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hsb3upw
Comment score: 121
Comment body: Why do you think we are paid so much
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hsblvco
Comment score: 90
Comment body: Because on forums/subs like this many people thinks ability to leetcode == easy and successful career at FAANG!

Nope, it maybe gets you into the door, but that's where the real ordeal starts.

And even if you can manage to jump ship every 6-12 months by leetcoding to the next gig it's not going to amount to a satisfying and rewarding career. 

Honestly, in recent years I've seen a lot of junior people who just have absolutely *zero*, and I mean none whatsoever, interest in software/engineering/technology, or even learning and building things in general. They are in this industry because of TC chasing. 10 years ago the same type of people would just go to business school and then become an iBanker at Goldman Sachs, but now they are all going to CS and have a lifegoal of "I'm gonna leetcode and jump between FAANG for 10 years and retire!" lol.

/End of rant from a 35 year old boomer XD
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hsbmkw7
Comment score: 37
Comment body: Why’s that matter, though? At the end of the day it’s just a job. If they want to chase money and get they job done then nothing wrong with that.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hsbn7qz
Comment score: 10
Comment body: So I’ve done “it’s just a job and the pay is good” gig before and I’ve also done “building some stuff I care about with other people who care about it” gig, and the latter is vastly more enjoyable as an experience.

And speaking from experience, working with people who obviously have zero passion or take no pride in what they do can actually be pretty draining. They also tend to be at best, average at their job.

Finally, I know at the end it’s just a personal value and culture thing, but I actually do respect and value people with passion for their crafts and take pride in the work they produce.

I personally have done very well in my career because I’ve been able to work with and learn from those people.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hsbry0h
Comment score: 7
Comment body: I don't disagree at all. Having passion for what you do is definitely ideal. I just think we tend to over-glamorize or over-emphasize the importance of SWEs. As if it's a special type of job. To me, it's relatively exclusionary because there are fewer people who have the analytical, technical, and personal tendencies needed to do the job well than the number of positions open.



&nbsp;I just don't think looking down on folks who DONT have much passion for the industry helps at all. There's anywhere from 1.8m to 4m (depending on the source [bls ex](https://www.bls.gov/ooh/computer-and-information-technology/software-developers.htm)) software engineers in the country. That's similar/slightly larger than the number of accountants in the country. If we went into a Big 4 accounting sub and started espousing how much passion we should have for the industry, I'm sure most of the folks would laugh.



&nbsp;I think the middle ground is that most folks enjoy aspects of the job - solving problems, debugging, making a product. But "passion" gets thrown around too much IMO for what is, at the end of the day, a normal white collar gig.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hscplup
Comment score: 2
Comment body: One of the articles that I've often linked is [Find The Hard Work You're Willing To Do](http://www.cs.uni.edu/%7Ewallingf/blog/archives/monthly/2018-10.html#e2018-10-21T09_53_29.htm)

It concludes with:

> But I had enjoyed working on the hard projects I'd encountered in my programing class back in high school. They were challenges I wanted to overcome. I changed my major and dove into college CS courses, which were full of hard problems -- but hard problems that I wanted to solve. I didn't mind being frustrated for an entire semester one year, working in assembly language and JCL, because I wanted to solve the puzzles.

> Maybe this is what people mean when they tell us to "find our passion", but that phrase seems pretty abstract to me. Maybe instead we should encourage people to find the hard problems they like to work on. Which problems do you want to keep working on, even when they turn out to be harder than you expected? Which kinds of frustration do you enjoy, or at least are willing to endure while you figure things out? Answers to these very practical questions might help you find a place where you can build an interesting and rewarding life.

> I realize that "Find your passion" makes for a more compelling motivational poster than "What hard problems do you enjoy working on?" (and even that's a lot better than "What kind of pain are you willing to endure?"), but it might give some people a more realistic way to approach finding their life's work.

---

It isn't "I want to be a CPA" but rather "working with accounting is something that I don't hate and can do."

The problem with software development for those who lack passion isn't the role, but rather the tasks.  There are people who I've worked with in the past who hate debugging their code.  If it doesn't work correctly on the first run, they throw up their hands, rip it all out, and try again.  They dislike sitting down and solving the puzzle of "where is the data not working right" and tracking through the code, its calls, its dependencies, the external services to see "why is it giving the wrong answer here?"

While on one hand, this is "your normal white collar gig" - but on the other hand, this is a particular domain of [knowledge worker worker](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Knowledge_worker) and there are tasks in that domain that people really don't like doing or they have difficulty planing their own work, or they don't like learning new things as the industry around them changes.

Passion isn't the right word, but as the author above says, it sounds better than "what pain are you willing to endure?"

I'm willing to endure the pain of debugging, of panicked log4j upgrades, of reading other peoples' code,  writing JUnit tests that have reasonable coverage, of deployments and the paperwork for the deployments... I won't say that I *enjoy* those things - I much prefer writing new code and the puzzles that are associated with that, but the rest of it - I'm willing to endure those too.