Title:Why aren't compressed work weeks more common?
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/jobs/comments/s5ksaq/why_arent_compressed_work_weeks_more_common/
Started a new job this past year and it happened to be a compressed work week. I work for 12 hours a day Monday through Wednesday and every other Thursday.

Initially, I thought I would hate it but took the job anyways because the pay was simply too much to turn down, but after a while I started to realize how great it was.

Every day for the last few hours of my shift I am earning overtime pay, and every Thursday my whole shift is overtime pay. Having weekdays as part of my days off is great, because I can head into a movie or visit a local park and have the place essentially to myself because everyone else is still at work. Additionally, with a 4 day weekend every other week I can basically go camping or head out of town for 3 days and go back home with a day to spare without having to use up any time off, and if I want to take a real vacation, all I need to do is ask for 3 days off and then I don't have to head into work for 10 days.

The only real downside I could think of is that it can be really hard to get anything done on the days you have to work once you're off the clock, but honestly even when I was doing 6 hour shifts working minimum wage jobs I was too burnt out to really do anything after work. Making food before/after work can be a bit of a chore as well but I learned that a bit of meal prep on a day off goes a long way.

Honestly I could understand someone in some minimum wage job or really any industry where you're expected to work every second of your shift not wanting to do 12 hour shifts. But I can't understand why anyone in an industry where you get your fair share of downtime would rather work 5 days a week than a compressed work week, and I honestly don't think I could go back to a standard schedule after working on a compressed work week.

Why aren't compressed work weeks more common? Why can't they be a standard for most white collar jobs?
----------TITLE----------
Topic engagement score: 1.855263157894737
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hsyp6kh
Comment score: 8
Comment body: It’s pretty crippling if you’re in the white collar world and your company is on a 5 day schedule and another you work with us on a 3 day
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hsyu7ww
Comment score: 4
Comment body: Time zones are often bad enough. Plenty of place on the West Coast of America only over lap with Europe if people in America start at 8am, or people in Europe stay after 5pm.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: ht2g8m5
Comment score: 3
Comment body: I feel this one. My West Coast customers calling after hours, Central Time zone customers thinking we missed meetings because they forget we are in different zones. My current company we have meetings at odd times when it involves the whole company to overcome the whole time zone issues, but for some people it's first thing in the morning for others it messes up their daily rythm.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: ht2lbax
Comment score: 2
Comment body: > Central Time zone customers thinking we missed meetings because they forget we are in different zones. 

While your other points are valid this is just incompetence, any meeting should be scheduled with a calendar invite that auto-adjusts for time zone.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: ht2xrn4
Comment score: 1
Comment body: Irony at it's finest, we had one who always forgot to change the time zone on her invites, it only takes one to throw a wrench in the whole day, so I started confirming the time zone was correct when accepting her invites.