Title:A new job I am interviewing for, requires the contact information for 3 references who currently work with me, including my manager and 2 other colleagues. How should go about asking each to be my reference?
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/careerguidance/comments/s671ni/a_new_job_i_am_interviewing_for_requires_the/
Hi all,

First and foremost, let me start out by saying that I have an incredible relationship with my current employer, and a very strong relationship with my current manager and colleagues.

I have been at this job since December 2020, and it is my first job that has started my career. My field is Geographic Information Systems (GIS).

Now, while I probably could have not have found a better company to work for as a way to begin my career, there are a couple of logistic reasons on why I have been applying elsewhere.

My current employer hired me in the middle of the pandemic, and so I have been working from home since. However, in December 2021 they came out with a return to office policy. I have no problems working in the office, my issue is that I currently live 1.5 hours away (1.5 hour commute each way), and the commute is brutal. I've had open discussions with my manager about how this commute is affecting me, but also that they are not paying me enough to even afford moving to the city where they are located. At the end of December 2021, I received a 12% raise but that still isn't enough.

This new opportunity that I am interviewing for is quite rare. I live in a small town that never has any GIS jobs. My local municipality put out an ad for one however, and I immediately applied. I have always wanted to work in my own community and this opportunity is perfect. It's a government position, local, suits me well, and higher pay.

I am having issues trying to figure out how I can ask my current manager and 2 other colleagues in my current company to be a reference for me. How can I go about this? Should I write it in an email or have a video call with them? What should I say?

I am going to be as open, honest, and transparent with them (as I always am), but I've never had to do this before, and I am no idea on how to handle the situation.

Thanks in advance!
----------TITLE----------
Topic engagement score: 1.9736842105263157
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: ht20tcy
Comment score: 6
Comment body: I am very confused as to how organizations are able to ask you for references at your current job. This puts you in a very poor position. 

I would try and see if there is wiggle room in that first before you have an honest conversation with your manager and colleagues.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: ht2bxjx
Comment score: 4
Comment body: Had a friend who applied to Blue Cross. At the end of the interview they insisted on current references. She supplied them, got fired, and didn't get the Blue Cross job.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: ht2dusv
Comment score: 3
Comment body: This is exactly why I would refuse to supply an employer with current references, it is extremely risky. 

And the potential employer knows this, which means they are perfectly okay with putting you in a very compromising position.

There is always a certain amount of risk involved when hiring a candidate, you will never know 100% how they will fit, but you can't minimize that risk while trampling your candidates. 

They are also missing out on potentially great candidates by requesting this, as likely some have refused.