Title:How do I tell my micromanaging boss that I’m leaving?
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/careerguidance/comments/s697n9/how_do_i_tell_my_micromanaging_boss_that_im/
This is a bit of a long story, apologies! I have a tldr at the end.

I (23F) started my current job at the beginning of August—so it’s been about 5 months. I quickly realized that the woman I report to has issues with control and trust, and I find that she’s tried to micromanage me on multiple occasions. 

I’m technically a remote employee, but she’s constantly asking where I’m working from—I tried to understand why, but it’s started to annoy me lately. She starts every one of our checkins with “so are you working from your apartment right now?” Sometimes I’ll work from my fiancé’s or my parents if I’m visiting, or I’ll choose to sit at a coffee shop simply for a change of scenery. Where I work from, in my opinion, doesn’t change my performance. Something that really set me off recently happened around Christmas time, where I spent the first half of the week at my fiancés (and she knew because she has a literal seizure if I don’t tell her) and then planned to work from his apartment again the following Monday, after Christmas. Seeing this, she asked me, “so when are you going to see your parents then?” And I didn’t feel that I needed to answer her at first, because it’s none of her business, but I told her I would go see them on Saturday, because we don’t celebrate Christmas anyway—so it didn’t matter when I went. She also stalks my calendar—I unshared it with her for literally 10 minutes and she immediately messaged me asking why.

I started to feel frustrated because it was obvious that she didn’t trust me and she even admitted that she micromanages and is controlling (in terms of her planning for her wedding), and it was beginning to feel like a very toxic environment for me. So I started to look for other jobs.

Last week, I was offered a position with a Fortune 500 company, almost a $40k salary boost from what I make now. I accepted the offer, but I’m struggling on how to tell my manager because I know she’s going to ask me when I had the time to attend interviews and such. I had them all after work hours but I don’t feel like explaining this to her. I also have my annual review next week. 

I need to tell her by the end of this month but I’m very nervous. How should I approach her?

tldr; my manager tries to be my mom and is always checking up on where I am/what I’m doing, etc. I got a new job and don’t know how to tell her I’m quitting, because I know she will ask me a million different questions questions on when I had my interviews and will not believe me when I say they were after work hours.
----------TITLE----------
Topic engagement score: 2.7241379310344827
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: ht28ctr
Comment score: 6
Comment body: Give her your two weeks follow up with an e-mail to her and hr. Don’t tell her where. If she asks just say I have a great opportunity that I can’t pass up. I’m not sharing my next role just yet. And don’t.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: ht29sm3
Comment score: 5
Comment body: Thank you for this!! I didn’t even consider going about the email route first, because the first thing she would do is call me with her list of questions. 

I have a bit of anxiety about the situation because she actually throws me back into memories of my parents scolding me. I do need to work on being cold and firm with my answers. I appreciate the advice!
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: ht2drxg
Comment score: 4
Comment body: I would do in the phone first then follow up with e-mail. I know it will be u comfortable but remember it’s your life not hers. You don’t owe her any responses. Stick with your script! Good luck.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: ht2fqg1
Comment score: 3
Comment body: I'll try my best, thank you!!
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: ht33u8r
Comment score: 1
Comment body: Try to make a list of guidelines or sentences that will help you stick to the type of reply your are willing to tell, so that if you feels unstable, you can look and catch back your balance.

Also, be aware that "You have no obligations to give personals/intimate informations to anybody, in any circonstance of life (except judiciary situation I guess)"   
Even to your parents.   
So you need to learn to dissociate from your parents conditionning. \^\^