Title:Why aren't compressed work weeks more common?
URL: https://www.reddit.com/r/jobs/comments/s5ksaq/why_arent_compressed_work_weeks_more_common/
Started a new job this past year and it happened to be a compressed work week. I work for 12 hours a day Monday through Wednesday and every other Thursday.

Initially, I thought I would hate it but took the job anyways because the pay was simply too much to turn down, but after a while I started to realize how great it was.

Every day for the last few hours of my shift I am earning overtime pay, and every Thursday my whole shift is overtime pay. Having weekdays as part of my days off is great, because I can head into a movie or visit a local park and have the place essentially to myself because everyone else is still at work. Additionally, with a 4 day weekend every other week I can basically go camping or head out of town for 3 days and go back home with a day to spare without having to use up any time off, and if I want to take a real vacation, all I need to do is ask for 3 days off and then I don't have to head into work for 10 days.

The only real downside I could think of is that it can be really hard to get anything done on the days you have to work once you're off the clock, but honestly even when I was doing 6 hour shifts working minimum wage jobs I was too burnt out to really do anything after work. Making food before/after work can be a bit of a chore as well but I learned that a bit of meal prep on a day off goes a long way.

Honestly I could understand someone in some minimum wage job or really any industry where you're expected to work every second of your shift not wanting to do 12 hour shifts. But I can't understand why anyone in an industry where you get your fair share of downtime would rather work 5 days a week than a compressed work week, and I honestly don't think I could go back to a standard schedule after working on a compressed work week.

Why aren't compressed work weeks more common? Why can't they be a standard for most white collar jobs?
----------TITLE----------
Topic engagement score: 1.639344262295082
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hsy209q
Comment score: 5
Comment body: I need that schedule.
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hsz3i7y
Comment score: 4
Comment body: Get an admin job in education. It’s where I am now and a lot of schools do modified work weeks during summer break due to there being less work
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hsz6ust
Comment score: 2
Comment body: what's your schooling like and what are you responsible for? Would this be interesting to someone who's socially anxious, do you think?
----------------------------------------
Comment ID: hszc57d
Comment score: 1
Comment body: I work in Grant Accounting for a university. For the most part I don’t really talk to anyone other than having to reach out occasionally for financial information. 

If you want a job where you don’t interact with people that much, Accounting might not be bad, but not being afraid to reach out helps a lot